Utilities/ffmpeg.md, before:

## Get resolution of video

`ffprobe -v error -select_streams v:0 -show_entries stream=width,height -of csv=s=x:p=0 video.mp4`

## Resize video

`ffmpeg -i input.mp4 -vf scale=1920:1080 -preset slow -crf 18 output.mp4`

## Reduce file size without resizing video

> Lower CRF = higher quality / bigger file size

> Use -preset slow/slower/veryslow for better quality (the slower, the better)

> Warning: `-preset veryslow` is actually very slow

`ffmpeg -i input.mp4 -vcodec libx264 -crf 20 -preset slow output.mp4`

`ffmpeg -i input.mp4 -vcodec libx265 -crf 23 -preset slow output.mp4`

## CRF values for x264

> Use 18 for high quality

The range of the quantizer scale is 0-51: where 0 is lossless, 23 is default, and 51 is worst possible. A lower value is a higher quality and a subjectively sane range is 18-28. Consider 18 to be visually lossless or nearly so: it should look the same or nearly the same as the input but it isn't technically lossless.

https://superuser.com/questions/677576/what-is-crf-used-for-in-ffmpeg

## CRF values for x265

> 28 for x265 compares to 23 for x264

> Heuristic: +2 compared to x264 CRF

Source:
https://trac.ffmpeg.org/wiki/Encode/H.265

## Sources

https://ottverse.com/change-resolution-resize-scale-video-using-ffmpeg/

Commit message:

New notes, page for plots/functions

Utilities/ffmpeg.md, after:

## Create from images in folder

For patterns like `img001.png, img002.png, img003.png`, etc:

> `ffmpeg -framerate 30 -i img%03d.png -vcodec libx264 -crf 23 -preset slow output.mp4`

For twitter, I also had to add `-vf format=yuv420p`, otherwise it wouldn't process the video:

> `ffmpeg -framerate 30 -i img%03d.png -vcodec libx264 -crf 23 -preset slow -vf format=yuv420p output.mp4`

See notes below for CRF.

## Get resolution of video

> `ffprobe -v error -select_streams v:0 -show_entries stream=width,height -of csv=s=x:p=0 video.mp4`

## Resize video

> `ffmpeg -i input.mp4 -vf scale=1920:1080 -preset slow -crf 18 output.mp4`

## Reduce file size without resizing video

Lower CRF = higher quality / bigger file size. In my experiments (and also on the internet), 18 for x264 is quite high quality.

Use -preset slow/slower/veryslow for better quality (the slower, the better)

Warning: `-preset veryslow` is actually very slow

> `ffmpeg -i input.mp4 -vcodec libx264 -crf 20 -preset slow output.mp4`

WARNING: x265 is not widely supported

> `ffmpeg -i input.mp4 -vcodec libx265 -crf 23 -preset slow output.mp4`

## CRF values for x264

> Use 18 for high quality

The range of the quantizer scale is 0-51: where 0 is lossless, 23 is default, and 51 is worst possible. A lower value is a higher quality and a subjectively sane range is 18-28. Consider 18 to be visually lossless or nearly so: it should look the same or nearly the same as the input but it isn't technically lossless.

https://superuser.com/questions/677576/what-is-crf-used-for-in-ffmpeg

## CRF values for x265

> 28 for x265 compares to 23 for x264

> Heuristic: +2 compared to x264 CRF

Source:
https://trac.ffmpeg.org/wiki/Encode/H.265

## Sources

https://ottverse.com/change-resolution-resize-scale-video-using-ffmpeg/

## x264 vs x265

h265 (or HEVC) is supposed to succeed h264, but according to Mozilla, browser support is limited, and it looks like adoption is encumbered with patents
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Video_codecs#hevc_h.265

As of 2021, h264 appears better in terms of compatibility.

If you want to play very high resolution videos in realtime, HEVC is better (e.g., for 8K videos), because of hardware decoding support in GPUs.
